# Configuration system _配置系统_


> Lombok, made to order: Configure lombok features in one place for your entire project or even your workspace.


> Lombok，定制：在一个地方为您的整个项目甚至您的工作区配置 lombok 功能。


The configuration system was introduced in `lombok 1.14`. <br/>
The import directive was added in `lombok 1.18.12`. <br/>
The `lombok.addNullAnnotations` configuration key was added in `lombok 1.18.12`.


配置系统是在 `lombok 1.14` 中引入的。 <br/>
导入指令是在 `lombok 1.18.12` 中添加的。 <br/>
在 `lombok 1.18.12` 中添加了 `lombok.addNullAnnotations` 配置键


## Overview _概述_


You can create `lombok.config` files in any directory and put configuration directives in it. 
These apply to all source files in this directory and all child directories.


您可以在任何目录中创建 `lombok.config` 文件并将配置指令放入其中。
这些适用于**此目录和所有子目录中的所有源文件**。


The configuration system is particularly useful for configurable aspects of lombok which tend to be the same across an entire project, such as the name of your log variable. 
The configuration system can also be used to tell lombok to flag any usage of some lombok feature you don't like as a warning or even an error.


配置系统对于 lombok 的可配置方面特别有用，这些方面在整个项目中往往是相同的，例如日志变量的名称。
配置系统还可用于告诉 lombok 将您不喜欢的**某些 lombok 功能的任何使用标记为警告甚至错误**。


Usually, a user of lombok puts a `lombok.config` file with their preferences in a workspace or project root directory, with the special `config.stopBubbling = true` key to tell lombok this is your root directory. 
You can then create `lombok.config` files in any subdirectories (generally representing projects or source packages) with different settings.


通常，lombok 的用户会在工作区或项目根目录中放置一个带有他们偏好的 `lombok.config` 文件，并使用特殊的 `config.stopBubbling = true` key 告诉 lombok 这是你的根目录。
然后，您可以在具有不同设置的任何子目录（通常代表项目或源包）中创建 `lombok.config` 文件。


An up to date list of all configuration keys supported by your version of lombok can be generated by running:


可以通过运行以下命令生成您的 lombok 版本支持的所有配置密钥的最新列表：


```shell
java -jar lombok.jar config -g --verbose
```


The output of the config tool is itself a valid `lombok.config` file.
The config tool can also be used to display the complete lombok configuration used for any given directory or source file by supplying these as arguments.
A sample of available configuration options (see the feature pages of the lombok features for their related config keys, as well as `java -jar lombok.jar config -g` for the complete list):


配置工具的输出本身就是一个有效的 `lombok.config` 文件。
配置工具还可用于通过提供这些作为参数来显示用于任何给定目录或源文件的完整 lombok 配置。
可用配置选项的示例（请参阅 lombok 功能的功能页面以了解其相关配置键，以及 `java -jar lombok.jar config -g` 以获取完整列表）：

* `lombok.accessors.chain`

  If set to `true`, generated setters will 'chain' by default (They will return this instead of having a `void` return type).

  如果设置为 `true`，生成的 setter 将默认 'chain' （它们将返回 this 而不是具有 `void` 返回类型）。

* `lombok.accessors.fluent`

  If set to `true`, generated `setter`s and `getter`s will simply be named the same as the field name, without a `get` or `set` prefix.

  如果设置为 `true`，生成的 setter 和 getter 将简单地命名为与字段名称相同的名称，而没有 `get` 或 `set` 前缀。

* `lombok.anyConstructor.addConstructorProperties`

  If `true`, lombok will generate a `@java.beans.ConstructorProperties` annotation when generating constructors. 
  **Note** that you'll need to depend on module '`java.desktop`' if you're using `jigsaw`.

  如果为 `true` ，lombok 会在生成构造函数时生成一个 `@java.beans.ConstructorProperties` 注释。
  **注意** 您将需要依赖模块 '`java.desktop`' ，如果您使用的是 `jigsaw` 。

* `lombok.log.fieldName`

  The name of the generated log field (default: `log`).

  生成的日志字段的名称（默认：`log`）。

* `lombok.(featureName).flagUsage`

  Allows you to forcibly stop or discourage use of a lombok feature. 
  Legal values for this key are warning or error. 
  Some examples of values for (`featureName`) are: "experimental" (flags use of any of the experimental features), "`builder`", "`sneakyThrows`", or "`extensionMethod`".

  允许您强行停止或阻止使用 lombok 功能。
  此键的合法值为警告或错误。
  (`featureName`) 值的一些示例是：“`experimental`”（标记使用任何实验性功能）、“`builder`”、“`sneakyThrows`”或“`extensionMethod`”。

Configuration files are hierarchical: 
Any configuration setting applies to all source files in that directory, and all source files in subdirectories, but configuration settings closer to the source file take precedence. 
For example, if you have in `/Users/me/projects/lombok.config` the following:

```lombok.config
lombok.log.fieldName = foobar
```

and in `/Users/me/projects/MyProject/lombok.config` you have:

```lombok.config
lombok.log.fieldName = xyzzy
```

Then the various `@Log` annotations will use `foobar` instead of the default `log` as a field name to generate in all your projects, except for your project in `/Users/me/projects/MyProject`, where `xyzzy` is used instead.

To restore a configuration key set by a parent config file back to the default, the `clear` option can be used. 
For example, if a parent configuration file has configured all use of `val` to emit a warning, you can turn off the warnings for a subdirectory by including in it a `lombok.config` file with:

```lombok.config
clear lombok.val.flagUsage
```

Some configuration keys take lists. 
For lists, use `+=` to add an entry. 
You can remove a single item from the list (useful to undo a parent configuration file's setting) with `-=`. 
For example:

```lombok.config
lombok.accessors.prefix += m_
```

Comments can be included in `lombok.config` files; any line that starts with `#` is considered a comment.

## Global config keys

These configuration keys have an effect on many or all lombok features, or on the configuration system itself.

To stop lombok from looking at parent directories for more configuration files, the special key:

```lombok.config
config.stopBubbling = true
```

can be included. We suggest you put this in the root of your workspace directory.

Lombok can add nullity annotations (usually called `@NonNull` and `@Nullable`) whenever it makes sense to do so; think of generated `toString` and [`withX` methods (these never return null), or the parameter of a generated `equals`]() method, which is allowed to be null, and requires such an annotation if you've set up your IDE for strict null checks as well as 'parameters are non-null by default'. 
There are many such libraries; you must tell lombok which one to use. By default, no such annotations are added. Enable this feature with:

```lombok.config
lombok.addNullAnnotations = <flavor>
```

Many flavors are available: `javax` (=JSR305; not recommended), `eclipse`, `jetbrains`, `netbeans`, `androidx`, `android.support` (deprecated within android), `checkerframework` (recommended), `findbugs`, `spring`, `jml`, or define your own via `CUSTOM:fully.qualified.NonNullAnnotation:fully.qualified.NullableAnnotation`; if your nullity annotation is solely of the type use style (it annotates types, such as eclipse's and checkerframework's offerings, versus annotating methods and parameters), the format is `CUSTOM:TYPE_USE:nonnullanno:nullableanno`.

This feature was added in lombok v1.18.12.

Lombok can be configured to add `@lombok.Generated` annotations to all generated nodes where possible; useful for JaCoCo (which has built in support), or other style checkers and code coverage tools:

```lombok.config
lombok.addLombokGeneratedAnnotation = true
```

Lombok can add the `@SuppressFBWarnings` annotation which is useful if you want to run `FindBugs` on your class files. 
To enable this feature, make sure findbugs is on the classpath when you compile, and add the following config key:

```lombok.config
lombok.extern.findbugs.addSuppressFBWarnings = true
```

Lombok adds the `@SuppressWarnings("all")` annotation to all generated nodes by default. 
This can be turned off which is useful if you want to use static code analyzers like [Checker Framework]().

```lombok.config
lombok.addSuppressWarnings = false
```

## Config keys that can affect any source file

These config keys can make lombok affect source files even if they have 0 lombok annotations in them.

```lombok.config
lombok.fieldDefaults.defaultPrivate = true
lombok.fieldDefaults.defaultFinal = true
```

Turning either of these options on means lombok will make every field in every source file final and/or private unless it has an explicit access modifier or annotation to suppress this. 
[See the `@FieldDefaults` documentation for more]().

## Importing the configuration from a different file

At the top of a configuration file it is possible to import other configuration files. 
Imported files don't have to be called `lombok.config` and can have any file extension (or even none).

```text
import ../configuration/model.config
```

The location of an imported file is resolved relative to the file that imports it.

For shared projects, it makes sense to always use relative paths. For individuals, it is also possible to use absolute paths.

```text
# Linux
import /etc/lombok/model.config
# Windows
import d:/lombok/model.config
```

Configuration files can import multiple configuration files as long as they are specified before any configuration key. 
The system behaves as if the contents of the imported file are at the location of the `import` declaration.

The way the configuration system works is that duplicate entries are effectively ignored. 
It is a last-wins. Lombok will only process a configuration file once when resolving a specific value. 
This allows you to import the same files from different configuration files, and even create loops without any problems.

It is also possible to import files from `.jar` and `.zip` files.

```text
# Use 'lombok.config' from the root of the archive.
import ../deps/lombok-config.jar
# Use a given file in the archive.
import ../deps/lombok-config.zip!base/model.config
```

Configuration files inside archives can import other configuration files, provided that they are in the same archive.

When importing files, it is possible to use environment variables.

```text
# Environment variables are names surrounded by angle brackets (<, >).
# They are replaced by System.getenv(name), if present.
import <JAVA_PROJECTS>/shared.config
# A tilde (~) at the start gets replaced by System.getProperty("user.home", "~").
import ~/my.config
```

As with absolute paths, this is more useful for individuals than for shared projects.

This feature was added in lombok v1.18.12.

