# `@SneakyThrows`

## Overview

`@SneakyThrows` can be used to sneakily throw checked exceptions without actually declaring this in your method's `throws` clause. 
This somewhat contentious ability should be used carefully, of course. 
The code generated by lombok will not ignore, wrap, replace, or otherwise modify the thrown checked exception; it simply fakes out the compiler. 
On the JVM (class file) level, all exceptions, checked or not, can be thrown regardless of the `throws` clause of your methods, which is why this works.

Common use cases for when you want to opt out of the checked exception mechanism center around 2 situations:

* A needlessly strict interface, such as `Runnable` - whatever exception propagates out of your `run()` method, checked or not, it will be passed to the `Thread`'s unhandled exception handler. Catching a checked exception and wrapping it in some sort of `RuntimeException` is only obscuring the real cause of the issue.
* An 'impossible' exception. For example, `new String(someByteArray, "UTF-8");` declares that it can throw an `UnsupportedEncodingException` but according to the JVM specification, UTF-8 must always be available. An `UnsupportedEncodingException` here is about as likely as a `ClassNotFoundError` when you use a String object, and you don't catch those either!

Being constrained by needlessly strict interfaces is particularly common when using lambda syntax (`arg -> action`); however, lambdas cannot be annotated, which means it is not so easy to use `@SneakyThrows` in combination with lambdas.

Be aware that it is impossible to catch sneakily thrown checked types directly, as javac will not let you write a catch block for an exception type that no method call in the try body declares as thrown. 
This problem is not relevant in either of the use cases listed above, so let this serve as a warning that you should not use the `@SneakyThrows` mechanism without some deliberation!

You can pass any number of exceptions to the `@SneakyThrows` annotation. 
If you pass no exceptions, you may throw any exception sneakily.
